Previously when our services were not secure because they were stateless,
the requester had to provide the username in the request
either in the query string or the request body.
That's not ideal as it opens up the application to injection attacks.
Even though our services are now requiring a valid JWT token,
it doesn't stop the holder of that token from accessing anyone's resources.
You want to make sure that the holder of the token can
only access their subject's resources.
If we look at the JWT token created by the authorization server,
it contains the users claim.
Juan is the preferred username.
So let's use this value rather than providing it in the request payload.
In our controller, for the portfolio get method,
we can access the JWT token authentication using the SecurityContextHolder.
Then we get the token and retrieve the claim as a string.
Now we don't have to pass in the username via query string or validate it.
And we are confident that only the portfolio of the resource
owner the token is created for is returned.
We can actually make this cleaner by using the
@AuthenticationPrincipal annotation as a parameter to the method.
Spring will now do the retrieval and casting for us.
Let's do the same for the other methods in the controller.
Let's try it via our React app.
Make sure you have Node running or the Crypto Portfolio React app
running and both the support and portfolio services.
I'm switching to Firefox as I find the developer mode
shows the headers better than Chrome.
I'm redirected to Keycloak.
Hmm.
Looks like there's an error, Cross-Origin Request Blocked.
If I go to the Network tab, I can see a call via an option HTTP method,
which returned a 401.
Basically, Spring blocked this request.
However,
if I try the same request via Postman with the access token from the client app,
it works and returns the data.
This is because the request originated from JavaScript and was cross-origin. We will look at this next.